---
layout: no-title-post
---
Apparently GitHub-flavored markup, or the kramdown implementation used by the GitHub Pages version of Jekyll doesn't follow the reference anchor syntax. Per https://kramdown.gettalong.org/syntax.html#reference-links, `[#][a1]` should render a ref-style link, but that doesn't work properly (seems like if you don't follow the `[]()` pattern you don't get a link). Instead you can use `[#](#a1){:#a1}` leveraging kramdown's [span IAL](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/syntax.html#span-ials) syntax to get to the same thing.

So that gives me a way to manually create anchor tags to small posts (not as nice as the automatic paragraph linking that Dave Winer's blogging tool (whatever it is right now) provides, but maybe good enough for the GH pages Jekyll engine process for now). I could probably do this "better" by using Jekyll locally and building my static pages and pushing them, but I'm not into that just yet.

However it does leave one problem: if I use the "a1" pattern for those links they'll work great on a daily page (presuming I basically do one "post" per day) but will collide (and not link to the right place) on the listing page. Still bears thinking about. Also bearing thinking, do I want a "#" link for each paragraph, or for each untiltled series of paragraphs that comprises a "thought"? [#](#a3){:#a3}

Another Thing I Learned: kissmetrics allows you to track behavior on arbitrary components without updating instrumentation in your app. As long as you have css identifiers on the components you want to look at you can set up reports on them without additional changes to your code. It's a marketing tool but I wan't aware of that piece of things. [#](#a4){:#a4}
