---
layout: no-title-post
title: '1'
date: 2018-01-16 10:51 -0600
---
[](){:#a161}Still working on puppetizing cert installation on Windows, which is proving to be a slightly larger headache than hoped-for (although I should have expected it - as a co-worker said, "Puppet for Windows: Why Did You Make Us Build This? :tm:"). First thing I ran into is that Pupet logs its activity to the Application Event Log. So far so good. Then I discover that it logs the output of PowerShell command failures one line per event. So a response like 
```
CertUtil: Unexpected "-csp" option

Usage:
  CertUtil [Options] [-dump]
  CertUtil [Options] [-dump] File
  Dump configuration information or files

Options:
  -f                -- Force overwrite
  -user             -- Use HKEY_CURRENT_USER keys or certificate store
  -Unicode          -- Write redirected output in Unicode
  -gmt              -- Display times as GMT
  -seconds          -- Display times with seconds and milliseconds
  -silent           -- Use silent flag to acquire crypt context
  -split            -- Split embedded ASN.1 elements, and save to files
  -v                -- Verbose operation
  -privatekey       -- Display password and private key data
  -pin PIN                  -- Smart Card PIN
  -p Password               -- Password
  -t Timeout                -- URL fetch timeout in milliseconds
  -sid WELL_KNOWN_SID_TYPE  -- Numeric SID
            22 -- Local System
            23 -- Network Service
            24 -- Local Service

CertUtil -?              -- Display a verb list (command list)
CertUtil -dump -?        -- Display help text for the "dump" verb
CertUtil -v -?           -- Display all help text for all verbs
``` 
is logged as 28 separate events. Ugh. [#](#a161)

[](){:#a162}I remain to be a little baffled here, though, even after having pieced together to error messages. I couldn't fiugure out why the PowerShell command was rejecting the `-csp` option, which is demonstrably correct when run in PowerShell directly. Then I realized as evidenced by the output above and by the fact that subsequent events reject `-importpfx` as an invalid PowerShell command that the PowerShell interpreter is breaking the command up for some reason, and is reading `certutil.exe -csp 'Microsoft Enhanced RSA and AES Cryptographic Provider' -p $password$ -importpfx $path$` as two (or more) separate commands, the first of which being `certutil.exe -csp 'Microsoft Enhanced RSA and AES Cryptographic Provider'`. Certutil then interprets that as a call without a verb, defaulting to the "dump" verb, which doesn't take the `-csp` option. [#](#a162)

[](){:#a163}I hypothesized that perhaps something in the password, which contains symbols, was fracking things up, but changing the password to `abcdefgh` didn't resolve the issue, so so much for that. [#](#a163)

[](){:#a164}Instead, it appears to have something to do with the secrets expansion via string interpolation, because placing the password in plain text seems to work but interpolating it via `"${secrets::shop_cert_pass}"` fails. Plain text password is fine, `${secrets::shop_cert_pass}` fails with PowerShell treating the command string as distinct commands, and `$secrets::shop_cert_pass` (i.e. without the curly braces) also is interpreted as distinct commands by powershell [#](#a164)

[](){:#a165}Finally sorted the root problem; the issue was with the way I was leveraging the puppet secrets module. We load secrets from local files on the puppet master, assign them to class variables in a secrets module, and then leverage the vairables in our own classes. The variables get assigned the contents of the secrets files using `file()` or `chomp(file())` variously. When the variable's value is assigned using `file()` it includes a terminal newline, which, when interpolated in a PowerShell command definition, is interpreted as starting a new command, causing the behavior I described above. The final fix was to switch to using `chomp(file())` instead. [#](#a165)

[](){:#a166}Other interesting things I ran into and / or learned: 
1. using the Windows Puppet Command Prompt to run `puppet agent --verbose` will echo the return values from the catalog's command to the console (more or less obvious, I guess). The `exec` resource's `logoutput` may also come in handy here.
1. in our environment, at least, `tail /var/log/daemon.log -f` on the puppet master outputs the master's activity, which helped solve some master-side problems (like permissions errors). [#](#a166)
